# Video Transcript

**Paul:** [00:00:00] I just want to introduce you to the global Biodiversity information facility. This is the GBIF homepage at GBIF.org as you can see it houses 2.5 billion Species Occurrence Records. These are observations of species from all over the world. Those are in 89,000. Data sets. GBIF involves 2,121 publishing institutions around the world.

In a recent development, it's now possible to track GBIF data into peer reviewed publications using digital object identifiers. 

So, If we take a look at the information about GBIF, GBIF is an intergovernmental network. It was established in 2001 based on a 1999 recommendation from the [00:01:00] OECD.

GBIF is interesting when compared with, sayINSDC or GISAID because it was established on a recommendation from OECD, and it is an intergovernmental network that consists of 44 voting member countries called participants governments 20 associate country participants. And then there are other participants, which can be things like public collections in different parts of the world and 2,177 publishers.

Each of the country's participants has a node which has responsibilities under a Memorandum of Understanding. So what we see here and what interests us, I think for, for digital sequence information is we have a clear and transparent governance mechanism. 

Just to take a look at a little bit at how the data in [00:02:00] GBIF is organized, you can identify data by country as we see here for Colombia, which is the name is CO is the country code.

There are 25 million species occurrences recorded for Columbia. There are 4,382 data sets, 47 countries, and organizations from those countries are contributing data about biodiversity in Columbia from 673 publishers. Let's take a look at Venezuela, that has 3.8 million occurrence records.

47 countries are contributing from 4,077 publishers, Peru. going down the Andean spine has 8.3 million records. Brazil has a pretty massive 29, million biodiversity records in GBIF. So the important point to remember here, I think, is that this is an intergovernmental [00:03:00] network which has a clear governance structure under a governing body that meets pretty much every year consisting of countries who are members, associate countries, and participating organizations who take decisions.

We can also dig into the data about an individual country. So here we have data, the 25 million records for Columbia. We can see information on the main kingdoms, animals, plants, fungi, where these species occurrence records are found. We can see some kind of information about trends in the deposit of information over, over time as we see here, whether these are human observations, machine observations, fossils, and so on. And notice here this information about licenses, which I will come onto in a moment. Then we have who the publishing country [00:04:00] is. Most of the Colombia data's coming from Colombia.

What the different data sets are. Most of the data in GBIF is actually really, a lot of it is about birds, because people are very keen on birds. Then we get, you know, quite a lot of summary statistics that are available from GBIF, and this is not available at present from entities such as INSDC for sequence related data. 

Okay, so we can start to get into some of the issues in around licenses with GBIF by returning to the homepage and clicking on occurrences. This gives us an overview of the entire species occurrence records from, G B I F, which is the 2.5 billion records . Now in 2013 members of GBIF realized that the situation around the terms and conditions of the use of GIF data were becoming a bit unwieldy [00:05:00] because, both for publishers and in particular for users because there was somewhere in the region of maybe 700 different sets of terms and conditions across the hundreds of millions of records at the time requiring basically contradictory terms and conditions for uses of data from different sources. So the solution that the GBIF board came up to this was a round of public consultation with government and scientific participants which settled through consultation on the adoption of three creative Commons licenses.

And if we just click on the occurrences here, we can see that all 2.5 billion species occurrence records at G B F are under one of three licenses. In fact, you are not allowed to submit data to G BIF that does not have one of these three licenses. [00:06:00] The three licenses are any use of permitted provided there is attribution, which is CC BY for Creative Commons by attribution.

Then the second license is CC BY NC, which stands for creative Commons by attribution, non-commercial use only and finally, CC zero. CC zero is not as such a license, it is an explicit surrender or entry of records into the public domain which is CC zero. There are no rights or obligations.

It's a surrender of any rights. And we can see from the records that the most popular license by far is CC by attribution, which is 1.9 billion records. This has changed over time, actually. The second most popular license is CC by attribution for non-commercial use. And finally, [00:07:00] we have the explicit waiver to the public domain of CC zero with 286 million records. What's nice about GBIFs, approach is that you can do quite a lot of things here. For example, we could look at the individual records for Colombia by going down to the country or area or area tab, and you can see that the figures are just here.

So for Columbia, we have 18 million records that are under a CC BY attribution license, 4.2 million that are non-commercial use , and attribution on 1.8 million that are for the waiver to the public domain. So you can really kind of dig down into this data and get quite a lot of information.

You can just search for your individual country. We can also look by publisher and this is where we get to sequence [00:08:00] data. So there are two, main publishers of sequence metadata. So this is data about the locations and species for sequences that occur in I N S D C databases, those, that's a database dataset from the European Nucleotide Archive with 7.1 million species occurrence records linked to sequences and the International Barcode of LIfe consortium with 9.7 million, which gives us a total of 16 million, 16.8 million species records that are associated with sequences. We can see that all of those records are under license and they're all under the CC BY license. So whereas the I N S D C has adopted a policy of not allowing any kind of terms and conditions, licenses, or so on for sequence records [00:09:00] held in I N S D C databases in this case they require the use of an attribution license. So for, in the case of E M B L, which is, representing that consortium for 7.1 million Species occurrence records. Now what I think is particularly relevant for indigenous peoples and the wider discussion on digital sequence information is that this system works seven days a week without any controversy whatsoever.

So it is an example of an intergovernmental body that engaged in a consultation process, decided on the use of a set of standardized open licenses. Implemented that approach with its international network and there has been zero controversy to date since 2016 when this was implemented about [00:10:00] the use of licenses.

This therefore provides a model for governance, how international governance can be arranged across multiple countries with data and for the application of specific tools such as licenses. 

So if we wanted to really kind of start digging into the detail of these 16 million records related to sequences we can start to kind of download the data and kind of explore it for particular countries. So in one case i located these records for This frog, and we can see that in the I N S D C sequences we have 19 records that come from Venezuela, Brazil, and Colombia for what is an Amazonian species, it might have a wider distribution than Amazonia for Brazil we see here[00:11:00] that we have information about the locality being in Ceguera, in Autana, in Amazonas which is an area where the Uwotjuja or Piaroa, with whom I used to live and work live.

If we look in Colombia we get location data here, which I'm assuming is somewhere in Amazonia although it's a bit less, ah in the Vaupes and we find we'll find similar information for Brazil. So what we can see here is that we can start to kind of dig down into records that are collected for specimens that are collected in indigenous people's territories.

And we can see here that these are made available under a cc by or attribution license. So the argument here would be that we [00:12:00] could link together the FAIR and the CARE principles to say that there would be some form of standardized license that would be specifically, visible to indigenous peoples in understanding what is being in making available specimens and sequence data for wider use.

